#Systems Analysis and Requirement
The Army currently uses an inadequate and inefficient system to process leave requests for service members. It involves soldiers filling out leave forms, and hand walking it to every  required office to approve the request, resulting in longer processing time and leave form being lost. The technology now exists to make this outdated process much easier and less frustrating for warfighters, improving morale and combat readiness. When completed, the Army Leave Processing System (ALPS) will allow soldiers at all levels to have more control over their time off requests and lower the workload of supervisors and managers throughout the organization.

Many soldiers struggle when it comes to applying for leave, specially for lower enlisted soldiers. Between going through their squad leaders and platoon sergeants in order to submit their leave packets, to knowing what goes into the packet, many soldiers choose not to fully enjoy one of their most significant benefits. Every soldier has experienced some frustrations  involved in the current system, or heard of someone who has. The problem is not even caused by their eligibility or decision of the approving authority,  but with the process and people they have to go through. Many soldiers find themselves in a situation referred to as use-or-lose situation, where they have accumulated so many leave days that they risque losing part of it if they do not use it by a certain date. Considering the challenges and stress the Army brings, every soldier could use some time off. I believe that if applying for leave was easier, more soldiers would fully utilize their time off to enjoy their families and recharge. ALPS will make the process more streamlined and remove many unnecessary steps. 

ALPS will be used exclusively by US Army service members for all their leave requests. When a soldier submit a request, it will be sent to his or her Platoon Sergeant to make sure that the soldier's requested dates do not coincide with any tasking or special duties. The request will then be forwarded to the service member's first sergeant for approval, as their supervisor. The commanding officer will receive the approved leave form for the final approval. After all approving authorities have signed the leave form, it will  then be sent to the personnel records office (S1), to update the soldier's records. 

With ALPS, a soldier will fill out their leave form (DA31) online, and upload all supporting documents for their leave. The system will check against the soldier record to make sure that the soldier is not delinquent on anything that will result in a denial of the request. If such delinquencies exist, the application will advise soldier to address those issues before moving forward with the request. If the soldier is current on all training and medical readiness, the request will be forwarded to their platoon sergeant for review. The request will then make its way through the soldier's chain of command. The soldier will have the option to track the request along the way, and update the request if need be. The application will also allow soldiers at the rank of E-6 or above and officers of all rank, to sign out on leave and sign in back on the website. 